Introduction
============

Contests are a very important source of incentives in the economy. In the US, the government regularly sponsors open competitions in order to solve challenging problems of public health, education, energy, environmental issues, and so on.^[On a monthly basis, the web portal www.challenge.gov publishes calls for new online challenges seeking problem solvers from all around the world.] In the private sector, firms use contests to rapidly expand their innovative ability (conducting open innovation initiatives) and, internally, as a means to motivate workers (bonuses, pay increases, promotions). So, understanding how to effectively design a contest to best achieve the desired goals is an important economic issue.

The purpose of this study is to better understand the difference between two quite popular choices of contest design: the race (a competition to be first) and the tournament (a competition to be best). In particular, we try to address the following research questions: How this choice affect contestants?  When the sponsor of a competition should pick one or the other? What is the main trade-off? How this decision interact with other key choices of design such as the distribution of prizes among winners? 

To address these questions we proceed in two ways. First, we generalize the incomplete-information contest model of @moldovanu2001optimal to allow for a comparison of both the race and the tournament within a single framework. Then, we gather experimental data in the field from expert competitors engaged in an online programming competition, which we use to test some of the implications of the theory.

<!-- How economists view this problem?  -->
Economists have a long tradition in studying races, of various kinds (patent races or arms races), and tournaments. A large body of works have investigated several aspects of contest design, including xxx, xxx, xxxx.  However, they rarely consider the race as the result of a deliberate choice of contest design. So we do not have many results on when and why to use a race instead of a tournament. On the other hand, there is a wide literature on tournaments and in particular we have many investigations on the optimal design of a tournament. These works seem to suggest that  tournaments act as incentive mechanisms to maximize expected total or average effort of competitors. 

<!-- Results -->
By this perspective, we are able to show that races cannot be justified simply by the goal of maximizing average effort. And the reason is intuitive. A race awards a prize to first to hit a particular target. Those who will judge the target to hard to achieve will not join the competition and will drop out. On the contrary,  those who are able to achieve the target at low costs will not try to exceed the target. As a result, the race is comparable to a competition with fixed "entry costs" or a fixed entry requirement, where agents will decide to either enter and pay a fixed prize, or stay out of the competition. Then, the possible gains in terms of expected revenues from a race are limited to those who would enter the competition and would exert less effort that that required to hit the target. These potential benefits can be obtained under a tournament as well by imposing a a fixed requirement to be eligible for prizes. So, races are not chosen to maximize expected effort of competitors, at least, in the traditional "auction-theoretical" sense. 

What are races for? We examine a few hypothesis and we provide some examples. First hypothesis is that the sponsor of the race is not primarily interested in total output but also in the time to complete a particular task. In a tournament, this type of preferences can be satisfied by fixing a deadline. Say time within which competitors are asked to provide their efforts. However, assuming competitors have costs from making less time in performing a task and there complementarities in costs, increasing the deadline in a tournament is similar to raising the marginal cost for everyone, which might not be an optimal solution. In a race, by contrast, increasing the deadline will affect entry but, conditional on entry, the time to complete the task will always be less than the deadline. Which means that those with low costs will be mostly affected by the deadline, whereas xxxx.  Which may be a superior choice than the tournament.  

To fix ideas let consider the following example. The government wants to solve a global public health problem such as "antibiotics resistance." The overuse of antibiotics leads to the phenomenon of "resistance" which is a loss in the power of antibiotics to treat certain infections. This is an increasing threat for public health. The government has the choice of making a contest to engage people in solving this problem. The government has preferences for time in the sense that the government wants to minimize to have the first submission. So, the government fix a requirement in terms of costs of the solution and award a prize to the first to meet this requirement. Example. UK governemet goes for a race. EU xxxx goes for a tournament with a deadline in 2016. (...) The answer to this optimal design question relates to the cost function of agents with respect to "time" and to "effort." It is hard to say which solution is better. However, it is easier to tell whether you should have one prize or multiple prizes. 

There is also a case for efficiency.  Consider a platform with many competitions. The platform may want to engage competitors for short period of time provide that solutions are above a certain quality level. 


To test our theory we further examine experimental data on competitors making sumibssion in an online computer programming contest. We randomized competitors into 3 groups: 
1. race
2. tournament
3. tournament with a quality requirement
we study participation, timing of submission and final scores. 

We find that, as our theory suggest, participation is higher in the tournament and lower in the race and in the tournament with entry costs.  We further find that submission are quicker in a race, whereas are equally distributed at the end of the competition in the the tournament and in the tournament with quality requirement. With respect to final scores, theory predicts as trade-off between a race and a tournament in terms of higher scores vs faster submissions. We do find that scores are higher in the tournament but we do not find a strong trade-off in the sense that race had comparable good quality solutions than the tournament.


# Literature 

This paper is related to the contest theory literature @dixit1987strategic @baye2003strategic, @parreiras2010contests, @moldovanu2001optimal, @moldovanu2006contest, @siegel2009all, @siegel2014contests. It also relates to the literature on innovation contests @taylor1995digging, @che2003optimal. And the personnel economics approach to contests @lazear1981rank, @green1983comparison, @mary1984economic. 

Empirically, @dechenaux2014survey provide a comprehensive summary of the experimental literature on contests and tourments. Large body of empirical works have focused on sports contests @szymanski2003economic. More recently, inside firms (xxx) and online contest (xxxx). 

This paper is also related to the econometrics of auctions @paarsch1992deciding,  @laffont1995econometrics, @donald1996identification and more recently @athey2011comparing, @athey2002identification, and @athey2007nonparametric. 


